Docs for primitive key support (#4478)
confluentinc/ksql: docs-md/tutorials/basics-docker.md

    ksql-datagen \
        bootstrap-server=kafka:39092 \
        quickstart=users \

>         format=avro \

Author: I've switched this to Avro as I've had to switch later examples from Avro to Json as they have non-STRING keys and Avro schema inference currently only works with STRING keys :(

Your output should resemble:

```
 Kafka Topic                 | Partitions | Partition Replicas
--------------------------------------------------------------
 default_ksql_processing_log | 1          | 1
 pageviews                   | 1          | 1
 users                       | 1          | 1
--------------------------------------------------------------
```

> By default, KSQL hides internal / system topics. Use the SHOW ALL TOPICS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, KSQL hides internal and system topics. Use the SHOW ALL TOPICS
```

> statement to see the full list of topics in the Kafka cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
statement to see the full list of topics in the {{ site.ak }} cluster:
```

```sql
SHOW ALL TOPICS;
```

Your output should resemble:

```

>   Kafka Topic                            | Partitions | Partition Replicas 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Kafka Topic                            | Partitions | Partition Replicas 
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 __confluent.support.metrics            | 1          | 1                  
 _confluent-ksql-default__command_topic | 1          | 1                  
 _confluent-license                     | 1          | 1                  
 _confluent-metrics                     | 12         | 1                  
 default_ksql_processing_log            | 1          | 1                  
 pageviews                              | 1          | 1                  
 users                                  | 1          | 1                  

> --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Author: Added details of new `SHOW ALL TOPICS` command!

```

Inspect the `users` topic by using the PRINT statement:

```sql
PRINT users;
```

!!! note

>    The PRINT statement is one of the few commands in ksqlDB that are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The PRINT statement is one of the few case-sensitive commands in ksqlDB,
```

>    case-sensitive, even when the topic name is not quoted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   even when the topic name is not quoted.
```

---------------
```

!!! note
      You may have noticed the CREATE TABLE did not define the set of columns
      like the CREATE STREAM statement did. This is because the value format

>       if Avro, and the DataGen tool publishes the Avro schema to the {{ site.sr }}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      is Avro, and the DataGen tool publishes the Avro schema to the {{ site.sr }}.
```

>       ksqlDB retrieves the schema from the Schema Registry and uses this to build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ksqlDB retrieves the schema from {{ site.sr }} and uses this to build
```

      the SQL schema for the table. You may still provide the schema if you wish.
      Until [Github issue #4462](https://github.com/confluentinc/ksql/issues/4462)
      is complete, schema inference is only available where the key of the data
      is a STRING, as is the case here.

!!! note

>       The data generated has the same value in the Kafka record's key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The data generated has the same value in the {{ site.ak }} record's key
```

>       as is in the userId field in the value. Specifying `key='userId'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      as the `userId` field in the value. Specifying `key='userId'`
```

>       in the WITH clause above lets ksqlDB know this. This information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      in the WITH clause above lets ksqlDB know this. ksqlDB uses this information
```

>       will be used later allow joins against the table to use the more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      to allow joins against the table to use the more
```

      descriptive `userId` column name, rather than `ROWKEY`. Joining

>       on either will yield the same results. If your data does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      on either yields the same results. If your data doesn't
```

>       contain a copy of the key in the value simply join on `ROWKEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      contain a copy of the key in the value, you can join on `ROWKEY`.
```

```
ksql> SHOW STREAMS;

 Stream Name         | Kafka Topic                 | Format    
---------------------------------------------------------------
 KSQL_PROCESSING_LOG | default_ksql_processing_log | JSON      
 PAGEVIEWS_ORIGINAL  | pageviews                   | DELIMITED 
---------------------------------------------------------------

ksql> SHOW TABLES;

 Table Name     | Kafka Topic | Format | Windowed 
--------------------------------------------------
 USERS_ORIGINAL | users       | AVRO   | false    
--------------------------------------------------
```

!!! tip
    Notice the `KSQL_PROCESSING_LOG` stream listed in the SHOW STREAMS

>     output? KsqlDB will append messages detailing any issues it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    output? ksqlDB appends messages that describe any issues that it
```

>     encountered while processing your data. If things are not working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    encountered while processing your data. If things aren't working
```

>     as you expect it can be worth checking the contents of this stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    as you expect, check the contents of this stream
```

>     to see if ksqlDB is encountering data errors.

Author: Call out the processing log!

Viewing your data
-----------------

1. Use `SELECT` to create a query that returns data from a TABLE. This
   query includes the `LIMIT` keyword to limit the number of rows
   returned in the query result, and the `EMIT CHANGES` keywords to

>    indicate we wish to stream results back. This is known as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   indicate you that want to stream results back. This is known as a
```

>    [pull query](../concepts/queries/pull.md). See the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   [push query](../concepts/queries/push.md). See the
```

>    [queries](../concepts/queries/index.md) for an explanation of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   [queries](../concepts/queries/index.md) section for an explanation of the
```

   different query types. Note that exact data output may vary because
   of the randomness of the data generation.
   ```sql
   SELECT * from users_original emit changes limit 5;
   ```

   Your output should resemble:

   ```
   +--------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+----------+-------------+
   |ROWTIME             |ROWKEY        |REGISTERTIME  |GENDER   |REGIONID  |USERID       |
   +--------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+----------+-------------+
   |1581077558655       |User_9        |1513529638461 |OTHER    |Region_1  |User_9       |
   |1581077561454       |User_7        |1489408314958 |OTHER    |Region_2  |User_7       |
   |1581077561654       |User_3        |1511291005264 |MALE     |Region_2  |User_3       |
   |1581077561857       |User_4        |1496797956753 |OTHER    |Region_1  |User_4       |
   |1581077562858       |User_8        |1489169082491 |FEMALE   |Region_8  |User_8       |
   Limit Reached
   Query terminated
   ```
   !!! note

>          Push queries on tables will output the full history of the table that is stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Push queries on tables output the full history of the table that is stored
```

>          in the Kafka changelog topic, i.e. it will output historic data, followed by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         in the {{ site.ak }} changelog topic, which means that it outputs historic data, followed by the
```

>          stream of updates to the table. It is therefore likely that rows with matching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         stream of updates to the table. So it's likely that rows with matching
```

>          `ROWKEY` are output as existing rows in the table are updated.

Author: I'm not sure when, but the default behaviour of push queries on tables has changed: they now output all data without the need to set `auto.offset.reset` session property.

There may be other docs that need updating to reflect this @JimGalasyn

> 2. View the data in your pageviews_original stream by issuing the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. View the data in your `pageviews_original` stream by issuing the following
```

   push query:
   ```sql
   SELECT viewtime, userid, pageid FROM pageviews_original emit changes LIMIT 3;
   ```

   Your output should resemble:

   ```
   +--------------+--------------+--------------+
   |VIEWTIME      |USERID        |PAGEID        |
   +--------------+--------------+--------------+
   |1581078296791 |User_1        |Page_54       |
   |1581078297792 |User_8        |Page_93       |
   |1581078298792 |User_6        |Page_26       |
   Limit Reached
   Query terminated
   ```

   !!! note
      By default, push queries on streams only output changes that occur

>       after the query is started, i.e. historic data is not included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      after the query is started, which means that historic data isn't included.
```

      Run `set 'auto.offset.reset'='earliest';` to update your session

>       properties if you want to see the historic data.

Author: Note: Streams still do start from the latest offset by default.

Write Queries
-------------

These examples write queries using ksqlDB.

### 1. Create a query that returns data from a ksqlDB stream

> Create query that enriches the pageviews data with the user's gender

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a query that enriches the pageviews data with the user's `gender`
```

> and regionid from the users table. The following query enriches the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `regionid` from the `users` table. The following query enriches the
```

`pageviews_original` STREAM by doing a `LEFT JOIN` with the

> `users_original` TABLE on the userid column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`users_original` TABLE on the `userid` column.
```

```sql
SELECT users_original.userid AS userid, pageid, regionid, gender
  FROM pageviews_original
  LEFT JOIN users_original
    ON pageviews_original.userid = users_original.userid
  EMIT CHANGES

>   LIMIT 5;

Author: Switched the example to something more useful to demo how a user might first get the query working with a transient query, before then converting it to a persistent query in the next step.

```

Your output should resemble:

```
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
|USERID             |PAGEID             |REGIONID           |GENDER             |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
|User_7             |Page_23            |Region_2           |OTHER              |
|User_3             |Page_42            |Region_2           |MALE               |
|User_7             |Page_87            |Region_2           |OTHER              |
|User_2             |Page_57            |Region_5           |FEMALE             |
|User_9             |Page_59            |Region_1           |OTHER              |
Limit Reached
Query terminated
```

!!! note

>   The join to the users table is on the userid column, which was identified as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The join to the `users` table is on the `userid` column, which was identified as
```

>   an alias for the tables primary key, `ROWKEY`, in the CREATE TABLE statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  an alias for the table's primary key, `ROWKEY`, in the CREATE TABLE statement.
```

  `userId` and `ROWKEY` can be used interchangeably as the join criteria for
  the table. However, the data in `userid` on the stream side does not match

>   the stream's key. Hence, ksqlDB will first internally repartition the stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the stream's key. Hence, ksqlDB internally repartitions the stream
```

>   by the `userId` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  by the `userId` column. before performing the join.
```

### 2. Create a persistent query

Create a persistent query by using the `CREATE STREAM` keywords to

> precede the `SELECT` statement, and removing the `LIMIT` clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
precede the `SELECT` statement and removing the `LIMIT` clause.
```

> The results from this query are written to the `PAGEVIEWS_ENRICHED` Kafka topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results from this query are written to the `PAGEVIEWS_ENRICHED` {{ site.ak }} topic.
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE pageviews_regions
 WITH (VALUE_FORMAT='avro') AS
SELECT gender, regionid , COUNT(*) AS numusers
FROM pageviews_enriched
  WINDOW TUMBLING (size 30 second)
GROUP BY gender, regionid
EMIT CHANGES;
```

Your output should resemble:

```
 Message                                                                                                
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Table PAGEVIEWS_REGIONS created and running. Created by query with query ID: CTAS_PAGEVIEWS_REGIONS_15 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

!!! tip
    You can run `DESCRIBE pageviews_regions;` to describe the table.

> ### 7. View query results using push query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 7. View query results using a push query
```

|ROWTIME        |ROWKEY           |WINDOWSTART    |WINDOWEND      |GENDER         |REGIONID       |NUMUSERS       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|1581080500530  |OTHER|+|Region_9 |1581080490000  |1581080520000  |OTHER          |Region_9       |1              |
|1581080501530  |OTHER|+|Region_5 |1581080490000  |1581080520000  |OTHER          |Region_5       |2              |
|1581080510532  |MALE|+|Region_7  |1581080490000  |1581080520000  |MALE           |Region_7       |4              |
|1581080513532  |FEMALE|+|Region_1|1581080490000  |1581080520000  |FEMALE         |Region_1       |2              |
|1581080516533  |MALE|+|Region_2  |1581080490000  |1581080520000  |MALE           |Region_2       |3              |
Limit Reached
Query terminated
```

!!! note
   Notice the addition of the WINDOWSTART and WINDOWEND columns.
   These are available because `pageviews_regions` is aggregating data
   per 30 second _window_. ksqlDB automatically adds these system columns
   for windowed results.

> ### 8. View query results using pull query

Author: Added section on pull queries!

> ### 8. View query results using pull query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 8. View query results using a pull query
```

> When a CREATE TABLE statement contains a GROUP BY clause, ksqlDB is internally building an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a CREATE TABLE statement contains a GROUP BY clause, ksqlDB builds an internal
```

table containing the results of the aggregation. ksqlDB supports pull queries against
such aggregation results.

Unlike the push query used in the previous step, which _pushes_ a stream of results to you,
pull queries pull a result set and automatically terminate.

> Push queries do not have the `EMIT CHANGES` clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull queries do not have the `EMIT CHANGES` clause.
```

> View all the windows and user counts available for a specific gender and region using a pull query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View all of the windows and user counts that are available for a specific gender and region by using a pull query:
```

```sql
SELECT * FROM pageviews_regions WHERE ROWKEY='OTHER|+|Region_9';
```

Your output should resemble:

```
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
|ROWKEY            |WINDOWSTART       |WINDOWEND         |ROWTIME           |GENDER            |REGIONID          |NUMUSERS          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
|OTHER|+|Region_9  |1581080490000     |1581080520000     |1581080500530     |OTHER             |Region_9          |1                 |
|OTHER|+|Region_9  |1581080550000     |1581080580000     |1581080576526     |OTHER             |Region_9          |4                 |
|OTHER|+|Region_9  |1581080580000     |1581080610000     |1581080606525     |OTHER             |Region_9          |4                 |
|OTHER|+|Region_9  |1581080610000     |1581080640000     |1581080622524     |OTHER             |Region_9          |3                 |
|OTHER|+|Region_9  |1581080640000     |1581080670000     |1581080667528     |OTHER             |Region_9          |6                 |
...
```

> Pull queries on windowed tables such as pageviews_regions also supports querying a single window's result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull queries on windowed tables such as `pageviews_regions` also support querying a single window's result:
```

```sql
SELECT NUMUSERS FROM pageviews_regions WHERE ROWKEY='OTHER|+|Region_9' AND WINDOWSTART=1581080550000;
```

!!! important

>    You will need to change value of `WINDOWSTART` in the above SQL to match one of the window boundaries in your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You must change the value of `WINDOWSTART` in the above SQL to match one of the window boundaries in your data.
```

   Otherwise no results will be returned.

Your output should resemble:

```
+----------+
|NUMUSERS  |
+----------+
|4         |
Query terminated
```

Or querying a range of windows:

```sql
SELECT WINDOWSTART, WINDOWEND, NUMUSERS FROM pageviews_regions WHERE ROWKEY='OTHER|+|Region_9' AND 1581080550000 <= WINDOWSTART AND WINDOWSTART <= 1581080610000;
```

!!! important

>    You will need to change value of `WINDOWSTART` in the above SQL to match one of the window boundaries in your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You must change the value of `WINDOWSTART` in the above SQL to match one of the window boundaries in your data.
```

  confluentinc/ksql-examples:{{ site.release }} \
  ksql-datagen \
      quickstart=orders \

>       format=json \

Author: had to switch to Json as the key type is not a STRING, so schema inference does not work yet :(

a stream of shipment events. By joining these on the order key, you can
see shipment information alongside the order.

### 1. Create two streams

> In the ksqlDB CLI create two new streams, both streams will store their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the ksqlDB CLI create two new streams. Both streams will store their
```

> order id in ROWKEY:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order ID in ROWKEY:
```

```sql
CREATE STREAM NEW_ORDERS (ROWKEY INT KEY, TOTAL_AMOUNT DOUBLE, CUSTOMER_NAME VARCHAR)
WITH (KAFKA_TOPIC='new_orders', VALUE_FORMAT='JSON', PARTITIONS=2);

CREATE STREAM SHIPMENTS (ROWKEY INT KEY, SHIPMENT_ID INT, WAREHOUSE VARCHAR)
WITH (KAFKA_TOPIC='shipments', VALUE_FORMAT='JSON', PARTITIONS=2);
```

!!! note

>   ksqlDB will create the underlying topics in Kafka when these statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ksqlDB creates the underlying topics in {{ site.ak }} when it executes these statements.
```

>   are executed. You can also specify the `REPLICAS` count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can also specify the `REPLICAS` count.
```

----------------
```

### 2. Populate two source topics

> Populate the streams with some sample data using the INSERT VALUES statement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Populate the streams with some sample data by using the INSERT VALUES statement:
```

```sql
-- Insert values in NEW_ORDERS:
-- insert supplying the list of columns to insert:
INSERT INTO NEW_ORDERS (ROWKEY, CUSTOMER_NAME, TOTAL_AMOUNT) 
  VALUES (1, 'Bob Smith', 10.50);
  

> -- short hand version can be used when inserting values for all columns, (except ROWTIME), in column order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- shorthand version can be used when inserting values for all columns, (except ROWTIME), in column order:
```

INSERT INTO NEW_ORDERS  VALUES (2, 3.32, 'Sarah Black');
INSERT INTO NEW_ORDERS  VALUES (3, 21.00, 'Emma Turner');

-- Insert values in SHIPMENTS:
INSERT INTO SHIPMENTS VALUES (1, 42, 'Nashville');
INSERT INTO SHIPMENTS VALUES (3, 43, 'Palo Alto');
```

> 

Author: Switched from using kafkacat to using INSERT VALUES!

    confluentinc/ksqldb-cli:{{ site.release }} ksql \
    http://ksql-server:8088
```

Enter the following INSERT VALUES statement to insert the shipment for
order id 2:

```sql
INSERT INTO SHIPMENTS VALUES (2, 49, 'London');
```

Switching back to your primary ksqlDB CLI window, notice that a third
row has now been output:

```
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
|ORDER_ID                  |TOTAL_AMOUNT              |CUSTOMER_NAME             |SHIPMENT_ID               |WAREHOUSE                 |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
|1                         |10.5                      |Bob Smith                 |42                        |Nashville                 |
|3                         |21.0                      |Emma Turner               |43                        |Palo Alto                 |
|2                         |3.32                      |Sarah Black               |49                        |London                    |
```

> 

Author: Added steps to show real-time updates on a running push query.

key1:{"id":"key1","col1":"v10","col2":"v11","col3":"v12"}
```

> You can also use `kafkacat` command line tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the `kafkacat` command line tool:
```
